Got the shopping.
Come on in, come on in.
Let’s do it.
Obviously, I know I'm cooking
for you and the family today.
So I thought I’d go
to the High Street
and get some beautiful, cost effective
ingredients to make a beautiful meal.
They don’t cost too much.
I appreciate you.
You in the shop thinking
about your family,
How does that work
for you every week?
We get the kids involved.
They help pick it.
Also it kind of teaches them about
money and the fact that we have to pay.
So what are you going
to make of all this?
I'm gonna make for you
and your amazing family,
a Mexican, one pot
chicken and black bean stew.
It's already got warm in here.
Are you feeling the
salsa vibes?
Let’s do it.
Time effective, cost
effective, flavour effective.
Everything you want from a dish.
Gunna get this chicken in. Skin down.
So obviously right now, things
cost more than they used to.
So what would be your advice for, like,
you know, people in their families
being cost effective
with their money?
What we've done in our house
is look at what are the meals
that we're going to have
and then shop to our meals.
Rather than just buying
what we used to buy before.
And then also, we look at how
can we make them cheaper.
Are there different proteins
that we can use?
Can some of these meals
be over a couple of days?
Yeah but
planning is everything and you'll
save yourself a lot of money.
If you fail to plan,
you plan to fail.
Been doing it for years.
What we have here is
our onions and garlic.
This is going to sweat down
and be the base of our flavor.
When it comes to cooking,
sometimes when I'm outside man,
I'm in the supermarket and I’m just lost,
I always forget what I have in the yard
and I end up double buying things.
It’s so important to
open the cupboards.
My kids we do a raid.
It's like a game, go through cupboards.
What can you see?
What do we need?
We have a list. Tick it.
So we know what we need.
And so it's a good way to save money.
A good way to make sure
that you're not spending
when you don't need to.
Do you know what I mean?
100%.
We're going to go in with these.
All the juice as well.
Wow.
Give that a stir chef.
Yes chef.
The way you stir, I can
tell you don't do this.
Hold it.
Oh you got to grips it up.
Grips it bro.
Oh grips it.
There we go.
Also the heat comes
from the seeds.
If the seeds ain’t going in there,
you're not going to get all that heat.
Give the beans a little mash.
Just a little one.
Now it’s going to help give us
different textures of the beans.
Is he talking about budgeting?
I've got better at it.
More and more I've learnt to
understand what can I spend this month?
What can I enjoy?
What can I not enjoy?
And what can I put away.
When it comes to the budgeting
what kind of tips can
you give to people then?
A great tip is that your banking app
a lot of these apps
can help you do that.
So it’s not like you have to now
go start learning spreadsheets
and all this type of stuff.
Yeah.
I won’t go get a
degree in economics.
Nah you ain’t gotta be that guy.
Because they got a
breakdown of your spending
and how much money
is spent on food.
How much money is
spent on your bills.
So use that as a reflection of where
you should save your money.
Exactly.
You're like a guru.
I try my best, trying to be like you.
Gunna start making
a little salsa now.
I’m not talking two step.
I’m not talking two step no.
I'm talking a punchy
salsa to go with that.
Look at that fresh little salsa.
With the more simple ingredients.
If you're trying to cook on a budget,
you're trying to make things better,
especially in times like this,
sometimes you got to
go with the own brand.
Get that own brand baked bean.
Get that own brand ketchup.
What do you think about
like the yellow stickers.
It's just as good.
And you're going to save money.
Feel like we could you know.
Dinner ready.
It's time to serve up.
Come on.
My brother.
Here we go man.
Let’s do it.
Love it.
Oh, my goodness.
Mmmm.
Oh.
Little.
I’m alright.
My tongue is doing this.
Spicy, punchy.
Fresh,
with all the ingredients.
No waste at all.
Alright,
is it time to feed the fam?
You got me feeling like a chef.
Ready?
Ready.
Let’s do it man. It’s time.
Hold it ready for the flavours boy.
Come on, guys.
Dinner’s ready.
Let's do this.
You’re gonna love it.